CHAPTER VII.
Judge not, that ye be not judged.
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged.
And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again.
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye?
But considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
How wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye?
And behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite!
First cast out the beam out of thine own eye,
and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs. Neither cast ye your pearls before swine,
lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you.
Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find.
Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth,
and he that seeketh findeth. And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
Or what man is there of you, whom, if his son ask bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he ask a fish, will give him a serpent? If ye then being evil, know how to give good
gifts unto your children? How much more shall your father which is in heaven,
give good things to them that ask him? Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. For this is the law, and the prophets.
Enter ye at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to
destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. But straight is the gate, and narrow is the way,
which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.
Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are
ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs
of thistles? Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth
evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth
good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord,
shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven.
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name
have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then I will profess unto
them, I never knew you, depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Therefore, whosoever heareth these
sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock.
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house,
and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine
and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand.
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house,
and it fell, and great was the fall of it.
And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his
doctrine, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.